---
title: "Modify Learning rate  vs Early stopping"
date: '2022-11-23'
output: html_document
image: 2022-11-03-06-09-39.png
---

## Something wrong

"There's something wrong with your network."

That was the start of a message Camille received from her friend. She posted the plot of a neural network training loss online, and Camilla's friend reached out to let her know.

Camille is using gradient descent for the first time, so she appreciated the help.

"Do you see what happened around the ninety epoch? The loss increases for a moment before coming back down again until the end. You don't want that,"—concluded the message.

What would you do if you were in Camille's shoes?

- Camille should decrease the learning rate. That should stop the loss from increasing during training.

- Camille should increase the learning rate. That should stop the loss from increasing during training.

- Camille should use Early Stopping at around the ninety epoch.

- Camille shouldn't do anything because her network has no problem.


## Attempt

Gradient descent moves downhill on average, so a network that learns appropriately should see the loss decrease over the training session. However, individual updates can move in the opposite direction, causing the loss to fluctuate up and down.

Camille's plot shows the loss increasing momentarily, but it immediately starts decreasing. That's normal, and Camille shouldn't worry about it.

Since the training process seems to be working correctly, modifying the learning loss might improve the results, but there's nothing Camille needs to fix. If she uses Early Stopping, she will prevent the network from improving further.

In summary, Camille shouldn't do anything at this point.


## Recommended reading


1. Check ["An overview of gradient descent optimization algorithms"](https://ruder.io/optimizing-gradient-descent/index.html#gradientdescentvariants) for a deep dive into gradient descent and every one of its variants.

2. Check ["Early Stopping"](https://articles.bnomial.com/early-stopping) for an introduction to one of the most effective, easy-to-implement regularization techniques when training machine learning models

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>
